This repo contains the game of Hex in both c++ and nim.  The c++ implementation is based on an assignment from the online course from the University of California Santa Cruz called C (and C++) for Everyone. The assignment asked for a naive game playing approach based on simulating the computer's move and choosing the highest winning outcome for each test move. Sometimes, the simulation finds the special move that thwarts the human player, but often does not. 

The c++ code is, naturally, based heavily on classes: one for creating a graph and the other for creating the hex game board and governing the game play in a terminal. I am sure my c++ code is not great. It also makes for a somewhat awkward conversion to nim, though the nim code is much more satisfying. 

The nim version runs perhaps 20% faster when using simple random number generators. The nim executable is twice as large (not that this matters at all) and the high water mark of memory while running is 25% greater for the nim executable than the c++ executable. Of course, the nim version is not object-oriented.  You see that every free function is passed the struct for the game using the syntactic sugar provided by Uniform Function Call Syntax. Calling these functions looks just like calling class code with a class instance. But, each function definition explicitly shows the struct as the first input parameter. The most tedious aspect of this usage is that any reference to a class member must be qualified with the name of the argument:  just keep it short!

This is a great outcome for nim: same to better speed, much clearer code, and entirely reasonable file size and memory usage.